People and computers are very
different from one another.
There's one way that we're alike.
You know how? We're both
vulnerable to getting
an infection.
While humans can be
infected by a virus
that causes a cold or flu,
computers can be
infected by malware.
Malware is software designed to
harm devices or networks.
Malware, which is short
for malicious software,
can be spread in many ways.
For example, it can be
spread through an
infected USB drive.
Or also commonly spread
between computers online.
Devices and systems
that are connected to
the internet are especially
vulnerable to infection.
When a device becomes infected,
malware interferes with
its normal operations.
Attackers use malware
to take control of
the infected system without
the user's knowledge
or permission.
Malware has been a
threat to people and
organizations for a long time.
Attackers have created many
different strains of malware.
They all vary in
how they're spread.
Five of the most common types
of malware are a virus,
worm, trojan,
ransomware, and spyware.
Let's take a look at
how each of them work.
A virus is malicious code
written to interfere with
computer operations and cause
damage to data and software.
Viruses typically hide inside
of trusted applications.
When the infected
program is launched,
the virus clones itself and
spreads to other
files on the device.
An important characteristic of
viruses is that they have to
be activated by the user
to start the infection.
The next kind of malware
doesn't have this limitation.
A worm is malware that can
duplicate and spread itself
across systems on its own.
While viruses require
users to perform
an action like opening
a file to duplicate,
worms use an infected
device as a host.
They scan the connected
network for other devices.
Worms then infect
everything on the network
without requiring an action
to trigger the spread.
Viruses and worms are
delivered through
phishing emails
and other methods
before they infect a device.
Making sure you click
links only from
trusted sources is one way
to avoid these
types of infection.
However, attackers have designed
another form of malware that
can get past this precaution.
A trojan, or Trojan horse,
is malware that looks like a
legitimate file or program.
The name is a reference to
an ancient Greek legend that's
set in the city of Troy.
In Troy, a group of
soldiers hid inside
a giant wooden horse that was
presented as a gift
to their enemies.
It was accepted and brought
inside the city walls.
Later that evening,
the soldiers inside
of the horse climbed out
and attacked the city.
Like this ancient tale,
attackers design trojans
to appear harmless.
This type of malware is
typically disguised as files or
useful applications to trick
their target into
installing them.
Attackers often use
trojans to gain access and
install another kind of
malware called ransomware.
Ransomware is a type of
malicious attack where attackers
encrypt an
organization's data and
demand payment to
restore access.
These kind of attacks have
become very common these days.
A unique feature of
ransomware attacks is that they
make themselves known
to their targets.
Without doing this, they
couldn't collect the
money they demand.
Normally, they decrypt
the hidden data
as soon as the sum
of money is paid.
Unfortunately,
there's no guarantee
they won't return
to demand more.
The last type of malware I
want to mention is spyware.
Spyware is malware
that's used to
gather and sell information
without consent.
Consent is a keyword
in this case.
Organizations also
collect information
about their customers,
like their browsing habits
and purchase history.
However, they always give
their customers the
ability to opt out.
Cybercriminals, on
the other hand,
use spyware to
steal information.
They use spyware attacks to
collect data like
login credentials,
account PINs, and other types of
sensitive information for
their own personal gain.
There are many other
types of malware besides
these and new forms
are always evolving.
They all pose a serious risk
to individuals and
organizations.
Next time, we'll explore how
security teams detect and
remove these kinds of threats.